# NESP-TWQ-3.1.2
The Great Barrier Reef (GBR) is an iconic asset that is pivotal to the social and economic well-being of all Australians. In recent years concern has intensified that human-induced pollutants are leaving farming systems and negatively impacting the GBR ecosystem and associated wetlands. Fertilisers in particular are believed to be linked to losses of dissolved inorganic nitrogen which are a major contributor of crown-of-thorns starfish outbreaks. In line with the 2050 water quality improvement plan (State of Queensland, 2018), the revised Burdekin water quality improvement plan (Waterhouse, Attard, Rickert, Buono, & Hunt, 2018) has aspirations to achieve a 60% reduction in dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) by 2025. Because of the strong linkage between irrigation management and DIN losses, managing DIN must involve improved irrigation management and scheduling. The challenge is how to do this in a way that remains both practical and profitable for farmers and, accrues environmental benefits.
Many people propose that smart technologies like automated irrigation systems offer a solution to this problem. Automated irrigation systems like WiSA, can save farmers a significant amount of time by remotely turning on and off pumps and valves. Unfortunately, automatic irrigation systems on their own do not provide (i) any insight on the amount and timing of irrigation required by the crop and (ii) how irrigation schedules should change with soil type, farm management and climate. 
To unravel these complex interactions, another smart tool is needed. This tool is in the shape of an irrigation decision support tool like IrrigWeb. Unfortunately due to the high frequency of irrigations across dozens of paddocks, and the need to irrigate almost all year round, day-to-day use of IrrigWeb is not a feasible solution for many farmers. We argue these two SMART technologies are SMARTER when they are ‘one’. 
The NESP Project 3.1.2 team, in close partnership with its industry stakeholders, and its industry partners, investigated if the Internet of Things (IoT) could make the two technologies of WiSA and IrrigWeb share data and work together seamlessly as ‘one’ SMARTER technology.  To achieve this, a two-way communication channel was generated between the WiSA and IrrigWeb platforms.
In the first stage, an Uplink program (WiSA to IrrigWeb) was developed and implemented on several sugarcane farms in the Burdekin region. It connects the farmer’s WiSA to IrrigWeb by uploading irrigation data automatically. The farmer’s irrigation events recorded by WiSA are automatically uploaded into IrrigWeb. This saves farmers time and makes irrigation scheduling much more efficient. Another benefit is that the farmer can co-learn from the decision support tool by observing the exact amount of water applied to each paddock, while comparing to the expected crop water use. The system also allows the farmer to make modifications to the irrigation management if required. Moreover, automating the data transfer from WiSA to IrrigWeb makes it easier for farmers, and thus, can motivate more farmers to adopt  these types of technologies and accrue water quality benefits. 
In the second stage, a Downlink program (IrrigWeb to WiSA) was developed to download, calculate and apply irrigation schedules. Here, irrigation schedules are dependant on a number of factors which include but are not limited to soil type, farm management, and climate. In this process, sugarcane irrigators will spend less time manually setting up irrigation schedules as it will happen automatically. The simulation results demonstrated the Downlink program improved the scheduling by incorporating practical limitations, such as energy and irrigation system constraints, irrigation priorities at a different time of the year and farmer irrigation preference. 
In the third stage, an IoT-based irrigation monitoring system is designed to monitor the implementation of the smarter irrigation system. In this stage, detailed information about the recorded irrigation event and rainfall data are collected. Moisture probe values and flow rate data are also collected as a quality control procedure to ensure the irrigation water applied by WiSA, matches the irrigation schedule suggested by IrrigWeb together with the adjustments which allow for practical on-farm constraints. A real-farm trial has been carried out with a duration of one month. The trial demonstrated this smarter irrigation management system could reliably manage irrigation scheduling on a real farm, for both furrow and sub-surface drip blocks. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time an experiment of this type has been performed for any sugarcane system, anywhere in the world. 
The combination of Uplink and Downlink embedded in our smarter irrigation system offers a cybernetic revolutionary solution that can transform sugarcane irrigation management in the Burdekin catchment that is practical, profitable and environmentally friendly. Specifically, this smarter irrigation management system can increase growers’ profit margins by increasing production, with less water, and less electricity in practical and efficient ways. It will also deliver environmental benefits, by reducing off-farm losses of agricultutal chemicals, such as nutrient (particularly N) and pesticides contained in irrigation water that leaves the farm via runoff or deep drainage, making an important contribution to achieving the Reef 2050 Water Quality Improvement Plan targets. 
